JAVASCRIPT_CONVERSION_GUIDE.md, before:

# JavaScript Conversion Guide

This document provides a comprehensive guide for converting the WebTemplate Kotlin library to JavaScript/TypeScript for browser-based healthcare applications.

## Overview

The WebTemplate library can be converted to JavaScript using several approaches:

1. **Kotlin/JS Compilation** - Direct compilation from Kotlin to JavaScript
2. **Manual TypeScript Port** - Rewriting core functionality in TypeScript
3. **Hybrid Approach** - Combining both methods for optimal results

## Demo Implementation

A working demonstration is available in the `kotlin-js-demo/` directory, showing:
- Core conversion functionality in Kotlin/JS
- Browser integration with HTML form
- Real-time data validation
- Interactive conversion between formats

## Kotlin/JS Compilation Approach

### Setup

The `kotlin-js-demo/build.gradle.kts` shows the required configuration:

```kotlin
plugins {
    kotlin("js") version "1.6.10"
    kotlin("plugin.serialization") version "1.6.10"
}

kotlin {
    js(IR) {
        browser {
            commonWebpackConfig {
                cssSupport.enabled = true
            }
        }
        binaries.executable()
    }
}
```

### Core Classes Converted

#### WebTemplateJS
```kotlin
@JsExport
class WebTemplateJS(
    private val templateId: String,
    private val tree: WebTemplateNodeJS,
    private val defaultLanguage: String = "en"
) {
    fun convertFromFlatToStructured(
        flatData: Map<String, String>,
        context: ConversionContextJS = ConversionContextJS()
    ): String
    
    fun convertFromStructuredToFlat(structuredJson: String): Map<String, String>
    
    fun validateFlatData(flatData: Map<String, String>): ValidationResult
}
```

#### ConversionContextJS
```kotlin
@Serializable
data class ConversionContextJS(
    val language: String = "en",
    val territory: String = "US", 
    val composerName: String = "Web User"
)
```

#### ValidationResult
```kotlin
@Serializable
@JsExport
data class ValidationResult(
    val valid: Boolean,
    val errors: List<String>,
    val warnings: List<String>
)
```

### Key Features Implemented

1. **Data Format Conversion**
   - Flat key-value pairs to structured JSON
   - Structured JSON back to flat format
   - Proper handling of OpenEHR path conventions

2. **Medical Data Validation**
   - Temperature range validation
   - Unit validation
   - Language code validation
   - Extensible validation framework

3. **Browser Integration**
   - Direct JavaScript API
   - No server-side dependencies
   - Real-time validation feedback

## Manual TypeScript Port

For teams preferring pure TypeScript/JavaScript:

### Core Interface Definition

```typescript
interface WebTemplateConfig {
    language: string;
    territory: string;
    composerName: string;
}

interface ValidationResult {
    valid: boolean;
    errors: string[];
    warnings: string[];
}

class WebTemplateTS {
    constructor(
        private templateId: string,
        private tree: TemplateNode
    ) {}
    
    convertFromFlatToStructured(
        flatData: Record<string, any>,
        config: WebTemplateConfig
    ): any {
        // Implementation details
    }
    
    validateFlatData(flatData: Record<string, any>): ValidationResult {
        // Validation logic
    }
}
```

### Required Dependencies

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "lodash": "^4.17.21",
    "date-fns": "^2.29.3",
    "uuid": "^9.0.0",
    "ajv": "^8.12.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/lodash": "^4.14.191",
    "typescript": "^4.9.5"
  }
}
```

## Browser Integration Examples

### React Component Integration

```jsx
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { WebTemplateJS } from './webtemplate-js';

const HealthDataForm = ({ template }) => {
    const [webTemplate, setWebTemplate] = useState(null);
    const [formData, setFormData] = useState({});
    const [validationResult, setValidationResult] = useState(null);
    
    useEffect(() => {
        // Initialize WebTemplate from template data
        const wt = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(template);
        setWebTemplate(wt);
    }, [template]);
    
    const handleFormChange = (field, value) => {
        const newFormData = { ...formData, [field]: value };
        setFormData(newFormData);
        
        // Real-time validation
        if (webTemplate) {
            const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(newFormData);
            setValidationResult(validation);
        }
    };
    
    const handleSubmit = async (e) => {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        if (webTemplate && validationResult.valid) {
            const structuredData = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(
                formData,
                { language: 'en', territory: 'US', composerName: 'Web User' }
            );
            
            // Send to server or process locally
            await submitHealthData(structuredData);
        }
    };
    
    return (
        <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
            <input
                type="number"
                placeholder="Temperature"
                onChange={(e) => handleFormChange('vitals/temperature|magnitude', e.target.value)}
            />
            
            <select onChange={(e) => handleFormChange('vitals/temperature|unit', e.target.value)}>
                <option value="°C">Celsius</option>
                <option value="°F">Fahrenheit</option>
            </select>
            
            {validationResult && !validationResult.valid && (
                <div className="validation-errors">
                    {validationResult.errors.map((error, index) => (
                        <div key={index} className="error">{error}</div>
                    ))}
                </div>
            )}
            
            <button type="submit" disabled={!validationResult?.valid}>
                Submit Health Data
            </button>
        </form>
    );
};
```

### Vue.js Integration

```vue
<template>
  <form @submit.prevent="submitForm">
    <div class="form-group">
      <label>Body Temperature:</label>
      <input
        v-model="formData.temperature"
        type="number"
        step="0.1"
        @input="validateData"
      />
    </div>
    
    <div class="form-group">
      <label>Unit:</label>
      <select v-model="formData.unit" @change="validateData">
        <option value="°C">Celsius</option>
        <option value="°F">Fahrenheit</option>
      </select>
    </div>
    
    <div v-if="validation.errors.length" class="errors">
      <div v-for="error in validation.errors" :key="error">
        {{ error }}
      </div>
    </div>
    
    <button type="submit" :disabled="!validation.valid">
      Convert Data
    </button>
  </form>
</template>

<script>
import { WebTemplateJS } from './webtemplate-js';

export default {
  props: ['template'],
  data() {
    return {
      webTemplate: null,
      formData: {
        temperature: '',
        unit: '°C'
      },
      validation: { valid: true, errors: [], warnings: [] }
    };
  },
  
  mounted() {
    this.webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(this.template);
  },
  
  methods: {
    validateData() {
      if (this.webTemplate) {
        const flatData = {
          'vitals/temperature|magnitude': this.formData.temperature,
          'vitals/temperature|unit': this.formData.unit
        };
        
        this.validation = this.webTemplate.validateFlatData(flatData);
      }
    },
    
    submitForm() {
      if (this.validation.valid) {
        const flatData = {
          'vitals/temperature|magnitude': this.formData.temperature,
          'vitals/temperature|unit': this.formData.unit
        };
        
        const structured = this.webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
        this.$emit('data-converted', structured);
      }
    }
  }
};
</script>
```

### Web Workers for Performance

```javascript
// web-worker.js
importScripts('./webtemplate-js.js');

let webTemplate = null;

self.onmessage = function(e) {
    const { type, data } = e.data;
    
    switch (type) {
        case 'initialize':
            webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(data.template);
            self.postMessage({ type: 'ready' });
            break;
            
        case 'convert':
            if (webTemplate) {
                const result = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(
                    data.flatData,
                    data.context
                );
                self.postMessage({ type: 'result', data: result });
            }
            break;
            
        case 'validate':
            if (webTemplate) {
                const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(data.flatData);
                self.postMessage({ type: 'validation', data: validation });
            }
            break;
    }
};

// main.js - Using the worker
const worker = new Worker('./web-worker.js');

worker.onmessage = function(e) {
    const { type, data } = e.data;
    
    switch (type) {
        case 'ready':
            console.log('WebTemplate worker ready');
            break;
            
        case 'result':
            handleConversionResult(data);
            break;
            
        case 'validation':
            handleValidationResult(data);
            break;
    }
};

// Initialize worker with template
worker.postMessage({
    type: 'initialize',
    data: { template: templateJson }
});
```

## Performance Considerations

### Bundle Size Optimization

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
module.exports = {
    optimization: {
        splitChunks: {
            chunks: 'all',
            cacheGroups: {
                webtemplate: {
                    test: /[\\/]webtemplate[\\/]/,
                    name: 'webtemplate',
                    chunks: 'all',
                }
            }
        }
    }
};
```

### Lazy Loading

```javascript
// Lazy load WebTemplate for better initial page load
async function loadWebTemplate() {
    const { WebTemplateJS } = await import('./webtemplate-js');
    return WebTemplateJS;
}

// Use in component
const initializeWebTemplate = async () => {
    const WebTemplateJS = await loadWebTemplate();
    return WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(templateData);
};
```

### Caching Strategies

```javascript
// Service Worker caching for templates
const CACHE_NAME = 'webtemplate-v1';
const TEMPLATE_CACHE = 'templates-v1';

self.addEventListener('install', event => {
    event.waitUntil(
        Promise.all([
            caches.open(CACHE_NAME).then(cache => 
                cache.addAll(['/webtemplate-js.js'])
            ),
            caches.open(TEMPLATE_CACHE).then(cache => 
                cache.addAll(['/templates/'])
            )
        ])
    );
});

// Template caching in application
class TemplateCache {
    constructor() {
        this.cache = new Map();
    }
    
    async getWebTemplate(templateId) {
        if (this.cache.has(templateId)) {
            return this.cache.get(templateId);
        }
        
        const template = await this.loadTemplate(templateId);
        const webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(template);
        this.cache.set(templateId, webTemplate);
        
        return webTemplate;
    }
}
```

## Testing Strategies

### Unit Tests

```javascript
// webtemplate.test.js
import { WebTemplateJS, ValidationResult } from './webtemplate-js';

describe('WebTemplateJS', () => {
    let webTemplate;
    
    beforeEach(() => {
        webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.createDemoTemplate();
    });
    
    test('converts flat to structured format', () => {
        const flatData = {
            'vitals/temperature|magnitude': '37.5',
            'vitals/temperature|unit': '°C'
        };
        
        const result = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
        const parsed = JSON.parse(result);
        
        expect(parsed.vitals.temperature.magnitude).toBe(37.5);
        expect(parsed.vitals.temperature.unit).toBe('°C');
    });
    
    test('validates temperature data', () => {
        const invalidData = {
            'vitals/temperature|magnitude': 'not-a-number',
            'vitals/temperature|unit': 'invalid-unit'
        };
        
        const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(invalidData);
        
        expect(validation.valid).toBe(false);
        expect(validation.errors).toHaveLength(2);
    });
});
```

### Integration Tests

```javascript
// integration.test.js
import { render, fireEvent, waitFor } from '@testing-library/react';
import HealthDataForm from './HealthDataForm';

test('form validates and converts data', async () => {
    const onDataConverted = jest.fn();
    const { getByPlaceholderText, getByText } = render(
        <HealthDataForm onDataConverted={onDataConverted} />
    );
    
    const temperatureInput = getByPlaceholderText('Temperature');
    fireEvent.change(temperatureInput, { target: { value: '37.5' } });
    
    const submitButton = getByText('Submit Health Data');
    fireEvent.click(submitButton);
    
    await waitFor(() => {
        expect(onDataConverted).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
            expect.objectContaining({
                vitals: expect.objectContaining({
                    temperature: expect.objectContaining({
                        magnitude: 37.5,
                        unit: '°C'
                    })
                })
            })
        );
    });
});
```

## Deployment Guide

### NPM Package

```json
{
  "name": "@better-care/webtemplate-js",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "JavaScript implementation of WebTemplate for OpenEHR",
  "main": "dist/webtemplate.js",
  "module": "dist/webtemplate.esm.js",
  "types": "dist/webtemplate.d.ts",
  "files": [
    "dist/"
  ],
  "scripts": {
    "build": "rollup -c",
    "test": "jest",
    "prepublishOnly": "npm run build && npm test"
  }
}
```

### CDN Distribution

```html
<!-- Direct CDN usage -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@better-care/webtemplate-js@1.0.0/dist/webtemplate.min.js"></script>

<script>
    const webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.createDemoTemplate();
    
    const flatData = {
        'vitals/temperature|magnitude': '37.0',
        'vitals/temperature|unit': '°C'
    };
    
    const structured = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
    console.log('Converted data:', structured);
</script>
```

## Migration Strategy

### Phase 1: Proof of Concept (2-3 weeks)
1. Set up Kotlin/JS build configuration
2. Port core conversion classes
3. Create basic browser demo
4. Validate concept with stakeholders

### Phase 2: Core Implementation (4-6 weeks)
1. Implement full conversion functionality
2. Add comprehensive validation
3. Create React/Vue component examples
4. Set up automated testing

### Phase 3: Production Ready (4-6 weeks)
1. Performance optimization
2. Browser compatibility testing
3. Documentation and examples
4. NPM package preparation

### Phase 4: Advanced Features (2-4 weeks)
1. Web Worker integration
2. Service Worker caching
3. Advanced validation rules
4. Framework-specific optimizations

## Conclusion

Converting WebTemplate to JavaScript opens up numerous possibilities for healthcare web applications:

- **Client-side Processing**: Reduce server load and improve responsiveness
- **Offline Capabilities**: Process healthcare data without internet connectivity
- **Real-time Validation**: Provide immediate feedback to healthcare providers
- **Mobile Optimization**: Better performance on mobile devices
- **Regulatory Compliance**: Keep sensitive data processing client-side

The combination of Kotlin/JS compilation and manual TypeScript implementation provides the best balance of development speed, type safety, and performance for healthcare applications requiring OpenEHR template processing in the browser.

Commit message:

Add runnable link and note on Kotlin/JS demo
Added runnable link for Kotlin/JS demo and noted its incomplete state.

JAVASCRIPT_CONVERSION_GUIDE.md, after:

# JavaScript Conversion Guide

This document provides a comprehensive guide for converting the WebTemplate Kotlin library to JavaScript/TypeScript for browser-based healthcare applications.

## Overview

The WebTemplate library can be converted to JavaScript using several approaches:

1. **Kotlin/JS Compilation** - Direct compilation from Kotlin to JavaScript
2. **Manual TypeScript Port** - Rewriting core functionality in TypeScript
3. **Hybrid Approach** - Combining both methods for optimal results

## Demo Implementation

A working demonstration is available in the `kotlin-js-demo/` directory, showing:
- Core conversion functionality in Kotlin/JS
- Browser integration with HTML form
- Real-time data validation
- Interactive conversion between formats

Runnable from https://raw.githack.com/ErikSundvall/web-template-incl-branches/refs/heads/master/kotlin-js-demo/src/main/resources/index.html
...but note that this is mostly incomplete stubs with a hardcoded form.

## Kotlin/JS Compilation Approach

### Setup

The `kotlin-js-demo/build.gradle.kts` shows the required configuration:

```kotlin
plugins {
    kotlin("js") version "1.6.10"
    kotlin("plugin.serialization") version "1.6.10"
}

kotlin {
    js(IR) {
        browser {
            commonWebpackConfig {
                cssSupport.enabled = true
            }
        }
        binaries.executable()
    }
}
```

### Core Classes Converted

#### WebTemplateJS
```kotlin
@JsExport
class WebTemplateJS(
    private val templateId: String,
    private val tree: WebTemplateNodeJS,
    private val defaultLanguage: String = "en"
) {
    fun convertFromFlatToStructured(
        flatData: Map<String, String>,
        context: ConversionContextJS = ConversionContextJS()
    ): String
    
    fun convertFromStructuredToFlat(structuredJson: String): Map<String, String>
    
    fun validateFlatData(flatData: Map<String, String>): ValidationResult
}
```

#### ConversionContextJS
```kotlin
@Serializable
data class ConversionContextJS(
    val language: String = "en",
    val territory: String = "US", 
    val composerName: String = "Web User"
)
```

#### ValidationResult
```kotlin
@Serializable
@JsExport
data class ValidationResult(
    val valid: Boolean,
    val errors: List<String>,
    val warnings: List<String>
)
```

### Key Features Implemented

1. **Data Format Conversion**
   - Flat key-value pairs to structured JSON
   - Structured JSON back to flat format
   - Proper handling of OpenEHR path conventions

2. **Medical Data Validation**
   - Temperature range validation
   - Unit validation
   - Language code validation
   - Extensible validation framework

3. **Browser Integration**
   - Direct JavaScript API
   - No server-side dependencies
   - Real-time validation feedback

## Manual TypeScript Port

For teams preferring pure TypeScript/JavaScript:

### Core Interface Definition

```typescript
interface WebTemplateConfig {
    language: string;
    territory: string;
    composerName: string;
}

interface ValidationResult {
    valid: boolean;
    errors: string[];
    warnings: string[];
}

class WebTemplateTS {
    constructor(
        private templateId: string,
        private tree: TemplateNode
    ) {}
    
    convertFromFlatToStructured(
        flatData: Record<string, any>,
        config: WebTemplateConfig
    ): any {
        // Implementation details
    }
    
    validateFlatData(flatData: Record<string, any>): ValidationResult {
        // Validation logic
    }
}
```

### Required Dependencies

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "lodash": "^4.17.21",
    "date-fns": "^2.29.3",
    "uuid": "^9.0.0",
    "ajv": "^8.12.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/lodash": "^4.14.191",
    "typescript": "^4.9.5"
  }
}
```

## Browser Integration Examples

### React Component Integration

```jsx
import React, { useState, useEffect } from 'react';
import { WebTemplateJS } from './webtemplate-js';

const HealthDataForm = ({ template }) => {
    const [webTemplate, setWebTemplate] = useState(null);
    const [formData, setFormData] = useState({});
    const [validationResult, setValidationResult] = useState(null);
    
    useEffect(() => {
        // Initialize WebTemplate from template data
        const wt = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(template);
        setWebTemplate(wt);
    }, [template]);
    
    const handleFormChange = (field, value) => {
        const newFormData = { ...formData, [field]: value };
        setFormData(newFormData);
        
        // Real-time validation
        if (webTemplate) {
            const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(newFormData);
            setValidationResult(validation);
        }
    };
    
    const handleSubmit = async (e) => {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        if (webTemplate && validationResult.valid) {
            const structuredData = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(
                formData,
                { language: 'en', territory: 'US', composerName: 'Web User' }
            );
            
            // Send to server or process locally
            await submitHealthData(structuredData);
        }
    };
    
    return (
        <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
            <input
                type="number"
                placeholder="Temperature"
                onChange={(e) => handleFormChange('vitals/temperature|magnitude', e.target.value)}
            />
            
            <select onChange={(e) => handleFormChange('vitals/temperature|unit', e.target.value)}>
                <option value="°C">Celsius</option>
                <option value="°F">Fahrenheit</option>
            </select>
            
            {validationResult && !validationResult.valid && (
                <div className="validation-errors">
                    {validationResult.errors.map((error, index) => (
                        <div key={index} className="error">{error}</div>
                    ))}
                </div>
            )}
            
            <button type="submit" disabled={!validationResult?.valid}>
                Submit Health Data
            </button>
        </form>
    );
};
```

### Vue.js Integration

```vue
<template>
  <form @submit.prevent="submitForm">
    <div class="form-group">
      <label>Body Temperature:</label>
      <input
        v-model="formData.temperature"
        type="number"
        step="0.1"
        @input="validateData"
      />
    </div>
    
    <div class="form-group">
      <label>Unit:</label>
      <select v-model="formData.unit" @change="validateData">
        <option value="°C">Celsius</option>
        <option value="°F">Fahrenheit</option>
      </select>
    </div>
    
    <div v-if="validation.errors.length" class="errors">
      <div v-for="error in validation.errors" :key="error">
        {{ error }}
      </div>
    </div>
    
    <button type="submit" :disabled="!validation.valid">
      Convert Data
    </button>
  </form>
</template>

<script>
import { WebTemplateJS } from './webtemplate-js';

export default {
  props: ['template'],
  data() {
    return {
      webTemplate: null,
      formData: {
        temperature: '',
        unit: '°C'
      },
      validation: { valid: true, errors: [], warnings: [] }
    };
  },
  
  mounted() {
    this.webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(this.template);
  },
  
  methods: {
    validateData() {
      if (this.webTemplate) {
        const flatData = {
          'vitals/temperature|magnitude': this.formData.temperature,
          'vitals/temperature|unit': this.formData.unit
        };
        
        this.validation = this.webTemplate.validateFlatData(flatData);
      }
    },
    
    submitForm() {
      if (this.validation.valid) {
        const flatData = {
          'vitals/temperature|magnitude': this.formData.temperature,
          'vitals/temperature|unit': this.formData.unit
        };
        
        const structured = this.webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
        this.$emit('data-converted', structured);
      }
    }
  }
};
</script>
```

### Web Workers for Performance

```javascript
// web-worker.js
importScripts('./webtemplate-js.js');

let webTemplate = null;

self.onmessage = function(e) {
    const { type, data } = e.data;
    
    switch (type) {
        case 'initialize':
            webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(data.template);
            self.postMessage({ type: 'ready' });
            break;
            
        case 'convert':
            if (webTemplate) {
                const result = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(
                    data.flatData,
                    data.context
                );
                self.postMessage({ type: 'result', data: result });
            }
            break;
            
        case 'validate':
            if (webTemplate) {
                const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(data.flatData);
                self.postMessage({ type: 'validation', data: validation });
            }
            break;
    }
};

// main.js - Using the worker
const worker = new Worker('./web-worker.js');

worker.onmessage = function(e) {
    const { type, data } = e.data;
    
    switch (type) {
        case 'ready':
            console.log('WebTemplate worker ready');
            break;
            
        case 'result':
            handleConversionResult(data);
            break;
            
        case 'validation':
            handleValidationResult(data);
            break;
    }
};

// Initialize worker with template
worker.postMessage({
    type: 'initialize',
    data: { template: templateJson }
});
```

## Performance Considerations

### Bundle Size Optimization

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
module.exports = {
    optimization: {
        splitChunks: {
            chunks: 'all',
            cacheGroups: {
                webtemplate: {
                    test: /[\\/]webtemplate[\\/]/,
                    name: 'webtemplate',
                    chunks: 'all',
                }
            }
        }
    }
};
```

### Lazy Loading

```javascript
// Lazy load WebTemplate for better initial page load
async function loadWebTemplate() {
    const { WebTemplateJS } = await import('./webtemplate-js');
    return WebTemplateJS;
}

// Use in component
const initializeWebTemplate = async () => {
    const WebTemplateJS = await loadWebTemplate();
    return WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(templateData);
};
```

### Caching Strategies

```javascript
// Service Worker caching for templates
const CACHE_NAME = 'webtemplate-v1';
const TEMPLATE_CACHE = 'templates-v1';

self.addEventListener('install', event => {
    event.waitUntil(
        Promise.all([
            caches.open(CACHE_NAME).then(cache => 
                cache.addAll(['/webtemplate-js.js'])
            ),
            caches.open(TEMPLATE_CACHE).then(cache => 
                cache.addAll(['/templates/'])
            )
        ])
    );
});

// Template caching in application
class TemplateCache {
    constructor() {
        this.cache = new Map();
    }
    
    async getWebTemplate(templateId) {
        if (this.cache.has(templateId)) {
            return this.cache.get(templateId);
        }
        
        const template = await this.loadTemplate(templateId);
        const webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.fromJsonTemplate(template);
        this.cache.set(templateId, webTemplate);
        
        return webTemplate;
    }
}
```

## Testing Strategies

### Unit Tests

```javascript
// webtemplate.test.js
import { WebTemplateJS, ValidationResult } from './webtemplate-js';

describe('WebTemplateJS', () => {
    let webTemplate;
    
    beforeEach(() => {
        webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.createDemoTemplate();
    });
    
    test('converts flat to structured format', () => {
        const flatData = {
            'vitals/temperature|magnitude': '37.5',
            'vitals/temperature|unit': '°C'
        };
        
        const result = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
        const parsed = JSON.parse(result);
        
        expect(parsed.vitals.temperature.magnitude).toBe(37.5);
        expect(parsed.vitals.temperature.unit).toBe('°C');
    });
    
    test('validates temperature data', () => {
        const invalidData = {
            'vitals/temperature|magnitude': 'not-a-number',
            'vitals/temperature|unit': 'invalid-unit'
        };
        
        const validation = webTemplate.validateFlatData(invalidData);
        
        expect(validation.valid).toBe(false);
        expect(validation.errors).toHaveLength(2);
    });
});
```

### Integration Tests

```javascript
// integration.test.js
import { render, fireEvent, waitFor } from '@testing-library/react';
import HealthDataForm from './HealthDataForm';

test('form validates and converts data', async () => {
    const onDataConverted = jest.fn();
    const { getByPlaceholderText, getByText } = render(
        <HealthDataForm onDataConverted={onDataConverted} />
    );
    
    const temperatureInput = getByPlaceholderText('Temperature');
    fireEvent.change(temperatureInput, { target: { value: '37.5' } });
    
    const submitButton = getByText('Submit Health Data');
    fireEvent.click(submitButton);
    
    await waitFor(() => {
        expect(onDataConverted).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
            expect.objectContaining({
                vitals: expect.objectContaining({
                    temperature: expect.objectContaining({
                        magnitude: 37.5,
                        unit: '°C'
                    })
                })
            })
        );
    });
});
```

## Deployment Guide

### NPM Package

```json
{
  "name": "@better-care/webtemplate-js",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "JavaScript implementation of WebTemplate for OpenEHR",
  "main": "dist/webtemplate.js",
  "module": "dist/webtemplate.esm.js",
  "types": "dist/webtemplate.d.ts",
  "files": [
    "dist/"
  ],
  "scripts": {
    "build": "rollup -c",
    "test": "jest",
    "prepublishOnly": "npm run build && npm test"
  }
}
```

### CDN Distribution

```html
<!-- Direct CDN usage -->
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@better-care/webtemplate-js@1.0.0/dist/webtemplate.min.js"></script>

<script>
    const webTemplate = WebTemplateJS.createDemoTemplate();
    
    const flatData = {
        'vitals/temperature|magnitude': '37.0',
        'vitals/temperature|unit': '°C'
    };
    
    const structured = webTemplate.convertFromFlatToStructured(flatData);
    console.log('Converted data:', structured);
</script>
```

## Migration Strategy

### Phase 1: Proof of Concept (2-3 weeks)
1. Set up Kotlin/JS build configuration
2. Port core conversion classes
3. Create basic browser demo
4. Validate concept with stakeholders

### Phase 2: Core Implementation (4-6 weeks)
1. Implement full conversion functionality
2. Add comprehensive validation
3. Create React/Vue component examples
4. Set up automated testing

### Phase 3: Production Ready (4-6 weeks)
1. Performance optimization
2. Browser compatibility testing
3. Documentation and examples
4. NPM package preparation

### Phase 4: Advanced Features (2-4 weeks)
1. Web Worker integration
2. Service Worker caching
3. Advanced validation rules
4. Framework-specific optimizations

## Conclusion

Converting WebTemplate to JavaScript opens up numerous possibilities for healthcare web applications:

- **Client-side Processing**: Reduce server load and improve responsiveness
- **Offline Capabilities**: Process healthcare data without internet connectivity
- **Real-time Validation**: Provide immediate feedback to healthcare providers
- **Mobile Optimization**: Better performance on mobile devices
- **Regulatory Compliance**: Keep sensitive data processing client-side

The combination of Kotlin/JS compilation and manual TypeScript implementation provides the best balance of development speed, type safety, and performance for healthcare applications requiring OpenEHR template processing in the browser.
